Raman spectra of radix astragali (astragalus root, 黄芪, Huang-qi). 

Raman spectra
  X meaning: Raman shift /wavenumber
  X range: 100 ~ 4278 cm-1
  Dimensions: 2090
  Resolution: 2cm-1 

Radix astragali is a widely used medicinal herb in traditional Chinese medicine (TCM). The major chemical components of radix astragali include polysaccharides, saponins, alkaloids, flavonoids, and various mineral elements. It is often used to treat diabetes and cardiovascular diseases.

All Radix Astragali samples were obtained from Simcere Company Limited (China); the origins of these samples were：

label = 0: Inner Mongolia (North China), 
label = 1: Sichuan (Southwest China), 
label = 2: Shanxi (Northwest China), 
label = 3: Gansu (Northwest China).

Data set summary:

Y labels: ["内蒙黄芪","四川黄芪","山西黄芪","甘肃黄芪"]

Among these regions, Inner Mongolia, Shanxi, and Gansu are traditional daodi regions.

Instrument:
The Raman spectrum of each sample was collected by a portable laser Raman spectrometer ProttezRaman-D3 (Enwave Optronics, USA). 
The excitation wavelength of the laser was 785 nm and the spectral measurements were conducted with an exposure time of 5 s and a laser power of 450 mW. 
The ultraviolet-visible absorption spectrum of each sample was recorded from a T6 New century ultraviolet-visible spectrometer (Purkinje General Instrument Company Limited, Beijing, China). 

Sample preparation: 
Radix astragali samples were added into a high speed multifunction grinder for processing for 5–10 min at 25000 rpm. 
3 g of the obtained powder sample was added into 30 mL of ethanol solution, and then the mixture solution was stirred at 100C for 60 min under reflux condition. 
Finally, the treated sample was cooled naturally and filtered.

-----------------------------------
If you use this dataset, reference this article: 
[1] Spectroscopic Profiling-based Geographic Herb Identification by Neural Network with Random Weights [J]. Spectrochimica Acta Part A: Molecular and Biomolecular Spectroscopy, 2022, doi: 10.1016/j.saa.2022.121348


